---
title: "Yet another coding blog?"
date: 2019-05-04T19:21:46+01:00
slug: hello-world
tags:
- general
---

So, yet another coding blog? Yeah, a couple of things coming together. In March 2019 I joined AWS as a developer advocate for [containers](https://aws.amazon.com/containers/) with a special focus on security. I have been and continue to develop [tooling](https://github.com/mhausenblas/), mainly using Go and shell scripts. In addition, I finally wanted to start sharing stuff I've been collecting over the past 10+ years in various (private) repos and gists, mainly code snippets or commands that make my life easier—since they helped me, why would they not be useful for others? :)

Here's an example, if you're dealing with a Kubernetes cluster and unsure about the API server URL:

```sh
$ kubectl get --raw=/api | \
          jq .serverAddressByClientCIDRs[0].serverAddress -r
ip-10-0-185-58.us-east-2.compute.internal:443
```

OK, wait. What happened here? Let's break it apart.

First, we use the `get` verb of the `kubectl` command in raw mode (hence: `--raw`). This means we directly specify the path to hit, in our case `/api`. From this endpoint, we get something like:

```json
{
  "kind": "APIVersions",
  "versions": [
    "v1"
  ],
  "serverAddressByClientCIDRs": [
    {
      "clientCIDR": "0.0.0.0/0",
      "serverAddress": "ip-10-0-121-66.us-east-2.compute.internal:443"
    }
  ]
}
```

In the next step we pipe this to `jq` to pull out the respective `serverAddress` field's value. The popular and very useful JSON query tool called [jq](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/) should be part of your toolbox anyways. Also, for further processing and to get a clean value (without the quotes) we use the `-r` option on `jq`, meaning "output raw strings, not JSON texts".

And this is how you determine the API server's URL. Got a better way? Let us know!

FWIW, I'm also open to concrete suggestions on topics in the cloud native space or if you have questions, I might as well write a post aiming to answer them.
